Now suppose we want to find the value of x that minimizes the cost that minimizes F of X it's on the
graph.
We can really see that that point would be around here.
But let's think about this problem a bit more deeply.
Right.
So if X was equal to two if we were here on the graph then the cost would be decreasing a lot as we're
moving down.
But when X is equal to 1 then that costs still decreasing.
But by not as much because the line just isn't as steep.
Right.
And by the same token when X is equal to zero.
That line is like flattening out even more.
So at this point the cost is only decreasing very very slightly.
Then we'd reach our minimum and then the cost starts increasing again.
Right as we move up the curve.
So in other words the slope or the steepness of this function.
Yeah it's telling us when we've reached our minimum cost because that slope is the rate of change.
And when this slope stops changing.
Well on this graph we know that the cost is equal to the lowest value.
In other words the slope of this function is kind of equal to zero at the point where the cost is the
lowest.
Now you may or may not remember from school how to find the slope of a function.
Depends how long it's been right.
But as a reminder the slope of the function is given by that functions derivative.
So let's add this section heading down on the next cell.
I'm going to go to cell cell type mark down put two hash tags there and then write slope and derivatives
because this is what this lesson is gonna be about power as a challenge.
Can you create a python function for the derivative of F of X and call that function D F affects.
When I scrolled back up for a second here.
So remember F of X was equal to X squared plus X plus 1.
I'll give you a few seconds to figure this out.
All right so here's the solution.
Yeah if you were scratching your head at this point because your calculus is a little bit Rusty let
me show you what the solution is and also how we arrived at it.
So I wanted to find a function with the death keyword then going to call it D F and have one input name
the X colon New Line return 2 times x plus 1 and that's it.
So how did I arrive at this.
How did I know it was gonna be 2 x plus 1 so the answers I used calculus now calculus and derivatives
are a pretty big topic but there's a couple of mathematical tricks or shortcuts that we can use to calculate
derivatives very very quickly and one of these tricks is called the power rule and that we'll be applying
it in several of the upcoming examples.
So here's a very quick reminder on how it works if you have a function x to the power of and then the
derivative of this function is n times X to the power of minus one.
So that's a pretty simple rule right.
Easy easy to remember but before we move on let me give you a couple of quick examples.
So so we have a cost function that is X to the power of five and we want to calculate this cost functions
derivative.
If we apply the power rule then we simply get five times x to the power of five minus one which is five
times x to the power of four.
And that's all there is to it.
That's the function of the derivative.
And here's another very very quick example we can apply the power rule to this function as well.
X cubed plus 5 times X squared plus 7.
So I'm going to go through these terms one by one X cubed is pretty easy right.
Because X cube will simply be three times x to the power of three minus one and then for that second
term five x squared the five stays where it is and we have two times X to the power of two minus one.
And then that's 7 right that 7 just disappears.
That's 7 just drops because 7 is a constant.
It doesn't depend on X constant don't change and since a derivative is all about the rate of change
the constant drops out.
It's equal to zero.
So the 7 disappears.
So what we end up with is three times x.
The power of two plus five times two times X right 10 X and that's it.
Right.
That's the power rule for derivatives in a nutshell so back in Jupiter notebook.
So we want a graph our derivative function that we've just worked out here.
We've worked hard to created.
So let's visualize it side by side with our original cost function.
So what we want is we want to chance side by side and to do that we're going to have to use the so-called
subplot functionality from Mad plot lib.
So I'm gonna show you the subplot functionality and I'm also gonna show you how to size the two charts.
So this is something new.
This is something we haven't done before but since a lot of the code will be very very similar to what
we've had up here I'm just gonna very very quickly go to edit copy cell and then go down here.
And I'm going to go to edit paste sell above so I can reuse some of this code that we've got here and
I change my comment here and I say plot function and derivative side by side.
So this is what we're gonna do here and uh in order to size our plot.
Yeah.
In order to size it we're gonna have to set the figure size of our plot.
So we're gonna write T dot figure parentheses and then we're gonna say fig size is equal to.
And then we have to give it a width and height.
So let's see what happens if I put in I don't know 10 comma five in the square brackets and he'd shift
enter so you can see now that the width is 10 and the height is five.
I looked at the documentation for this and this is actually measured in inches of all things.
I don't really know.
Oh I don't really know why that is but I hope it makes our American friends happy.
How I'm going to modify this code a little bit more so in order to have two plots side by side we're
gonna have to use this subplot functionality from that plot led so many a specialty sub plot and then
I have to specify three numbers in a row a column and an index.
So in this case I'm going to have two plots side by side.
So they're going to be in the same row.
So one row can be two columns.
And the first plots this cost function here is gonna be at index 1 is gonna be my first plot and now
it's time to add our second plots.
I'm going to say PDT dot subplot.
And for the second plot it's gonna be still in the same row row number one still two columns but this
one is gonna be at index 2.
So this is gonna be my second plot.
Now I have not it yet when I do that.
Now to graph our derivative when right peel to eat out plot and we're going to feed in our Excel score
one values and then we're gonna call our function.
Right.
So the first one was f of x 1 and this one is gonna be D F of X on a school one let's see what happens.
Now a press shift enter.
Huh.
So I've got two plots.
Now you see this two plots side by side and they're still occupying the same space as before right.
The overall figure is still 10 by five.
So we can see here the figure size hasn't changed but now it's split with two plots two subplots taking
up that same space.
So I can probably make use of this space here on the right a little bit better by maybe making this
15 by 5.
I think that should be about right.
Press shift enter.
I get it like this.
Very nice.
How what I'm going to do is add a few labels and style these graphs a little bit better so that if you
ever coming back to this notebook in the future you can make sense of this chance very quickly and very
easily.
So someone insert two comments first right.
So this is the first chart and this is the cost function and down here is the second chart
of the derivative
for the first chart Let's explicitly state that it should be blue and that it should have a line width
of maybe three and four our second chance we're gonna give it the color sky blue and a line width of
five
How does that look.
Pretty good.
Now let's add some title and X labels and Y labels to that second chart as well.
So I'm just gonna copy this code here and added here but instead of having it say cost function I'm
going to say slope of the cost function and on the X is still X but on the Y it's gonna be DFA effects
and then I'm also gonna set the axes so again and when I copy X lemon while limb and add this down here
but I'm gonna have it go from maybe minus two to three and from on the Y from C three to six.
Oh sorry minus 3 to 6.
Slight shift to see what it looks like.
So this is quite good.
This is very very nice and clear but there's one small improvement that I'd really like to make.
We're interested primarily in where this minimum is here and one of the things that be quite nice to
see on this chart is where our slope our sky blue line here actually intersects the axis here.
So what we can do is we can style our chart to have a grid.
This is fairly easy to do so for our second chart for our derivative all we have to do is add PDT dot
grid and then two parentheses for the method name.
No need to add any arguments here.
It shift enter and then you can see map plot lib applies a grid automatically to this subplot and now
it's very very nice to see that ha intersection of the slope of the derivative it's gonna be probably
somewhere at the midpoint between minus 1 and 0 so that's gonna be around here somewhere.
That seems about right.
So as a quick summary we've covered a three new things for styling graphs and charts.
One of them is this idea of sizing them.
The second thing is this idea of having plots side by side and that requires the subplot function which
needs to know how many rows how many columns and what the index is.
And then also we've used the grid function for the first time to superimpose a grid on to the plot.
Now as a challenge can you instead of having these plots side by side stack them from top to bottom.
What would you have to change in the python code in order to achieve this in order to arrange the plots
in a different way.
I'll give you a few seconds to pause the video and try it out to dissolve it.
Did you manage to get it.
Here's the solution.
The key on arranging the charts is gonna be where are subplots are right.
So if you want to have them top to bottom then you'd have to have two rows and one column and I'd have
to change this for both subplots.
So for the first chart and for the second chart I'm going to have to go 2 and 1 instead of 1 and 2 if
I press shift enter now we can see our charts arrange themselves from top to bottom but one of the reasons
why they look terrible like this is because we've constrained our figure size to be still using the
same dimensions 15 by 5 right.
So it's stretching out the charts across the whole space that it's allotted.
And that's why they look like this.
But if we changed our figure size with some new constraints say 5 and 15 right then pressing shift enter
will give us the chance like this.
In this case they're more tall than wide.
Now I quite like the original setup so I'm going to change this back to 15 and 5 and I'm going to go
with one row two columns for my subplots one row and two columns for both of them.
So this is how I would prefer to look at these two charts.
But yeah if you figure this out super handy for being able to arrange the charts in your Jupiter notebook.
Ha right.
So I hope you're ready for the next lesson.
House.
Here there.
Take care.